# Efficient Pruned Autoencoder for Visual Pathway Modeling with AlexNet

**pAE: An Efficient Autoencoder Architecture for Modeling the Lateral Geniculate Nucleus by Integrating Feedforward and Feedback Streams in Human Visual System**


The visual cortex is a vital part of the brain, responsible for hierarchically identifying objects. Understanding the role of the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) as a prior region of the visual cortex is crucial when processing visual information in both bottom-up and top-down pathways. When visual stimuli reach the retina, they are transmitted to the LGN area for initial processing before being sent to the visual cortex for further processing. In this study, we introduce a deep convolutional model that closely approximates human visual information processing. We aim to approximate the function for the LGN area using a trained shallow convolutional model which is designed based on a pruned autoencoder (pAE) architecture. The pAE model attempts to integrate feed forward and feedback streams from/to the V1 area into the problem. This modeling framework encompasses both temporal and non-temporal data feeding modes of the visual stimuli dataset containing natural images captured by a fixed camera in consecutive frames, featuring two categories: images with animals (in motion), and images without animals. Subsequently, we compare the results of our proposed deep-tuned model with wavelet filter bank methods employing Gabor and biorthogonal wavelet functions. Our experiments reveal that the proposed method based on the deep-tuned model not only achieves results with high similarity in comparison with human benchmarks but also performs significantly better than other models. The pAE model achieves the final 99.26% prediction performance and demonstrates a notable improvement of around 28% over human results in the temporal mode.
